SES Tips for developing an Awesome Resume:
Be sure to include your complete name, contact information at the top of your resume- be specific to your recipient

Have a 1-2 sentence description on what you are looking for (summer job, etc). This is to help employers quickly filter out long-term job seekers from those looking for summer work. Does one want work experience? Does one want specific experience in lab to complement coursework?

UC Berkeley, expected year of graduation (Keep it near the top!)

It can be beneficial to list relevant classes on your resume of the form: 

"Physics: ____. 
Math: _____. "

Give specific names. Don't list Math 53, but "Vector Calculus". Remember to cater to the recipient.

Skills: (for example) Oscilloscopes, Matlab, Python, Excel, etc. List things that would help the employer. Computer languages and foreign languages are great.

Work Experience: Most jobs would be good to list here. Even Lifeguard, Safeway. In Professor Harley's words, this means 'you play nice'. Non-technical jobs mean you can interact with people.

Community Service / 'Helping Others': List things like tutor, church work, projects in the community.

Leadership roles / Activities: Everyone should be listing SES. (If you come to our meetings on Friday at 5pm, we can probably make you an officer). List other activities.

Publications: COE has poster sessions in HMMC often. Especially early in your career, you may not have anything to list quite yet.

Awards: (tuition, scholarship, etc.)

Extra tips for a college level resume: 

Outgrow high school listings as soon as possible.

Make the resume one side of one page.

A neat resume is nice to have, but content always comes first. "Beauty if not important, but ugliness isn't helping you." A busy professor may have a tough time reading a cluttered resume.

Watch out for spelling mistakes! Use capital letters and be professional. Employers want to know that you are detail-oriented.

Send your resume as a PDF.

Course projects are okay to list. Especially early in your career, it's good to fill the one side of one page. Long projects show one's ability to work persistently. Professor Harley: "It's a plus to have that experience."

Tips for getting a job or research position:

Keep an eye out for these groups which have regular listings and due dates often in January:
NASA Ames 
NSF 
REU, Research Experience for Undergraduates 
LBNL 
The Berkeley College of Engineering hosts two summer undergraduate programs (Quest and Rose Hills).
Talk to your professors. Be polite.

When talking to companies, be nice to the HR person but make a connection with the technical person. 

It's actually not too late to find something at LBNL. Many researchers appreciate summer help because you, as a student, are available to work full time.

It's often great to approach someone for work in January for the spring semester. Even if you work only a few hours a week, you will be have a better understanding of your position over summer and can be much more productive.

Many people who control funds (professors, LBNL Division Directors) may be too busy to see you. Talk to individuals in the next tier (i.e. graduate students & postdoctoral students). 

Use your own connections in student groups. Talk to undergraduates and graduate students you know who have research positions and see if you can schedule a meeting with their professor.

Talk to your faculty advisors. As shown here, Professors Attwood and Harley are wonderful resources and will try to help you obtain an experience to complement your classroom work.

Jobs can be stimulated. Often, students with Engineering Science majors are accepted into research groups and positions that didn't exist before they asked.

One final tip:

Send your resume to a couple of faculty you know (and/or postdocs or grad students). Instead of asking them for a position, ask them if they have advice on who to contact to get a summer/short-term job. Attach your resume and come into their office hours to talk within a couple days. Then, it is not their responsibility to hire you but only to route you to more potential opportunities.

